OSDOCS-1146, added router sharding content for Dedicated (#27169)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/dedicated-configuring-your-application-routes.adoc

[id="dedicated-configuring-your-application-routes_{context}"]
= Configuring your application routes

> When your cluster is provisioned, an AWS elastic load balancer (ELB) is created to route application traffic into the cluster. The domain for your ELB is configured to route application traffic via `http(s)://*.<cluster-id>.<shard-id>.p1.openshiftapps.com`. The `<shard-id>` is a random four-character string assigned to your cluster at creation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your cluster is provisioned, a cloud-specific load balancer is created to route application traffic into the cluster. The domain for your load balancer is configured to route application traffic via `http(s)://*.<cluster-id>.<shard-id>.p[0-9].openshiftapps.com`. The `<shard-id>` is a random four-character string assigned to your cluster at creation time.
```

> If you want to use custom domain names for your application routes, {product-title} supports CNAME records in your DNS configuration that point to `elb.apps.<cluster-id>.<shard-id>.p1.openshiftapps.com`. While `elb` is recommended as a reminder for where this record is pointing, you can use any string for this value. You can create these CNAME records for each custom route you have, or you can create a wildcard CNAME record. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use custom domain names for your application routes, {product-title} supports CNAME records in your DNS configuration that point to `elb.apps.<cluster-id>.<shard-id>.p[0-9].openshiftapps.com`. While `elb` is recommended as a reminder for where this record is pointing, you can use any string for this value. You can create these CNAME records for each custom route you have, or you can create a wildcard CNAME record. For example:
```

[source,yaml]
----
*.openshift.example.com    CNAME    elb.apps.my-example.a1b2.p1.openshiftapps.com
----

This allows you to create routes like `app1.openshift.example.com` and `app2.openshift.example.com` without having to update your DNS every time.

> Customers with configured VPC peering or VPN connections have the option of requesting a second ELB, so that application routes can be configured as internal-only or externally available. The domain for this ELB will be identical to the first, with a different `<shard-id>` value. By default, application routes are handled by the internal-only router. To expose an application or service externally, you must create a new route with a specific label, `route=external`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers with configured private connections to the cluster have the option of requesting a second application router, so that application routes can be configured as internal-only or externally available. The domain for this router will be identical to the first, with the exception of using `apps2` instead of the `apps` subdomain used by the default router. All application routes are always exposed on the default, `apps` router. If you create your second application router without any label matching configured, then all application routes would _also_ be exposed on the `apps2` router. If you provide a label match configuration for your second application router, then you must specify this label on each route that you wish to be exposed on the second application router.

Red Hat's recommendation for two application routers is to set the default router as private, and leave the additional application router as public with a label match similar to `route=external` to help make it clear what would happen to that route.
```

> To expose a new route for an existing service, apply the label `route=external` and define a host name that contains the secondary, public router shard ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using our recommendation, in order to expose a new, external route for an existing service, apply the label `route=external` and manually define a host name that uses the `apps2` domain instead of the default `apps` domain:
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose service <service-name> -l route=external --name=<custom-route-name> --hostname=<custom-hostname>.<shard-id>.<cluster-id>.openshiftapps.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc expose service <service-name> -l route=external --name=<custom-route-name> --hostname=<custom-hostname>.apps2.<cluster-id>.<shard-id>.p1.openshiftapps.com
```
